

#### January 10th , 2025


On an eventful Friday night, we have heeded the Hackathon's call. We were presented with three avenues to choose from, where we would be tasked with the creation of a complete solution that is custom-tailored to fulfill the requirements of members of NSCC's team. We were provided with three choices to choose from, and we opted to choose Michael Purcell's task. 

Michael Purcell's challenge is a well-known one at NSCC. If the winds of fate ordains the tragedy of failing a class on their learning journey, Michael would contact the student to let them know that it is not the end of the world, and to provide the piece of mind of knowing your path well in advance. Michael's task is done normally on a manual basis, where Michael would obtain an Excel Spreadsheet containing the students' information, which would include the classes they are registered in, their final grades, their program, the courses the student is registered in, etc. Michael's noble task depends on utilizing this information to provide the student with an Advising Map, which would indicate the courses the student would like to register in, based on the program they are in, the courses taken so far, and whether the student can register for these courses due to the academic program's dependencies. After the plan is compiled, the student would provide the advising map to the Registrar's office, who in turn would register the student for the courses indicated in the plan. 

The advising process is a manual task. It involves going through the spreadsheet and glancing over any failing grades that he could see, and then adding the student's name to the list of names he would have to contact. Thus, a sincere wish was to automate this process, as it would make Michael's life easier.  

As a team, we went through the requirements of this project. We needed to think of innovative ways to achieve this. Evan had extensive experience with databases and the LaTex language syntax, Brad had extensive experience with application development and my experience involves Python development and the Markdown language (which is used typically for Wiki pages and project documentation). The initial plan was visualize the actions that would happen in our solution's backend, where the spreadsheet's data would be ingested and directed to a database. The latter would use the student number as a means of pinpointing the data we are interested in, and after the data is retrieved, it would be presented to the user. The details that would be retrieved would be the student's name, student number, the student's program, the last term's courses that  the student has undertaken, and their respective grades. Michael would ordinarily had a Program Map PDF sheet, where the program's course dependencies would be indicated visually. Courses that depend on each other would be highlighted visually with arrows. 

When it comes to the visual presentation of the data, we have discussed the different options that can be used effectively. Since I have extensive experience with Markdown, I have recommended that we utilize Markdown as a language. It is quite powerful, and simple to use and learn. At the Hackathon event, we were honored with the input of members of the tech industry, who aided us greatly in the brainstorming process. The idea that was delivered was that our solution should have minimal dependencies, and we should keep our assumptions , pertaining to the presence and adoption of certain technologies by NSCC, in check. If our solution was an all-encompassing, complete and without an extensive list of dependencies, the probability of its utilization increases dramatically. 


The event was concluded, and its end marked the beginning of our creative journey. We decided as a team to explore different potential avenues for dealing with the project's requirements, ranging from whether to use a database, how to visually present the data, and the methodology for running the application itself.  